>> Steve Kinney: So
let's talk a little bit about Firebase.
As I mentioned,
this is version two of the course.
And in the year and
a half since we did this last time,
Firebase released
an entirely new database.
So [LAUGH] a lot has actually changed,
and also,
React has changed a lot in that time too,
right?
We have a new context API, all sorts of
new ways for dealing with state as well.
So there's a lot of kind of new and
interesting ways in
which the two interact.
So we'll talk a little bit.
We're going to build
a application using Firebase and
React from the ground up, with a kind of
very close to a create React app basis.
And then start to bring in various
different Firebase features.
We're going to bring in authentication,
right?
If you've ever tried to wire up oauth
yourself, one, I'm sorry, and two, you're
gonna be a little both elated and sad when
you see how easy it is with Firebase.
We're going to use Firebase's
brand new Cloud Firestore,
which is their fancy new database
that is a lot easier to work with and
a lot more scalable.
And it's really kind of exciting.
We'll play around with storage for
storing images and
any other kind of files
that we wanna store.
We'll upload those through
our React app as well.
And then we'll also write cloud functions.
There's a lot of stuff, like Firebase,
we think about it a lot as,
it's totally for a front end to
talk to a back end system, right?
But actually we can write back
end code with Firebase too.
And we're going to need to for
a lot of things.
There's a lot of things you don't
wanna necessarily do on the client so
it's awesome to be able
to make API end points.
Or say, hey, when this data change,
then I want to go ahead and
trigger all these other actions, right?
So you can do a whole bunch
of stuff in the background.
If you've ever played with AWS Lambdas or
anything along those lines,
it's very similar to that.
Based on events that happen
in your application,
you can trigger other things
that go on and happen as well.
Right, so be able to update data,
change stuff as other things change, and
it'll be really interesting.
And for me, this is also very compelling,
because one
of my hobby horses is this argument that
we don't tend to think about modern
client-side applications in the same
way that we think about stuff like
an iOS or an Android application.
Your modern day true web application
is very much like a mobile application.
Right, it was one of those boiling a frog
things where it went from, okay yeah,
I'm gonna do some form
validation in jquery.
To, I'm going to ship a giant
of bundle of JavaScript, and
an index.html file with a single div on
it and build the entire thing in there.
And have it work offline, and
stuff along those lines, right?
So it's really interesting to use
the same kind of tools, like Firebase,
we're gonna use it with React today.
But Firebase also supports iOS and
Android as well, right?
So kind of thinking in that
paradigm of building, in our case,
both desktop and mobile applications,
cuz that's the beauty of the web.
We can start to think about it in
the same way that we think about building
native mobile applications,
they're using some of the same frameworks.
Again, we are doing this in JavaScript and
React, but the Firebase concepts,
theoretically, should you choose
to pick up Swift or Kotlin or
Java to do Android development,
the concepts still apply, right?
Theoretically, some of these concepts
will still apply to React Native as well.